# hello-world
Introduction to using GitHub.  I am using this repo to learn about using GitHub.  I have seen it used and have experience with Microsoft's Team Services, but have not used GitHub in my projects.

# About me
My name is Humberto Cruz-Oyola Jr.  I find it difficult to decide what exactly to include in this portion that is interesting enough for someone to want to read. I guess my most notable trait is that I enjoy software development very much.  I love encountering situations in which creating automation systems helps improve the quality or work, as well as make performing the work more enjoyable.  My dream is be able to create automation systems that improve the overall quality of life for as many people as possible.  

My hobbies include just about anything that involves creativity, such as art, music, and stories.  I wish I had more time to deveote to each of my interests, but have picked software development to be my focus since that is what I am most passionate about, by far.

# A brief history
I had what I would call a late start into software development. I have always been interested in creating.  I dabbled in creating music, stories, and art.  I have also had a deep interest in technology.  I vaguely remember my father showing my brothers and me some BASIC programming on a Commodore 64.  At the time, I am pretty sure I thought it was cool, but did not think much of it.  It wasn't until my senior year in high school that I realized that my true passion was in creating software.  I started off learning VB6 and was able to pick it up pretty quickly.  I knew that I wanted to formally learn to become a programmer and set off down that path at university.  

I enrolled in the Computer Information Sciences program at Kansas State University in 2000.  While our family wasn't poor, we were not rich, either.  I ended up getting a full-time job working at a DSL technical support call center.  Between working as much as 50 hours a week and attending college full time, I struggled to keep up with everything I was supposed to be learning.  The first programming course I took was CIS 200 Programming Fundamentals, since I had tested out of CIS 100 and had some college credits after graduating high school.  This course used Java to teach the fundamentals, a language I had never touched.

Unfortunately, it was too far above my head to understand.  I received very little instruction on where to even begin when it came to Java programming.  I never had to use a command line or compile code.  My previous experience with Visual Basic 6 only slightly familiarized me with dot notation.  On top of that, I was not used to using the Internet to research programming.  Google was only 2 years old at the time and I had not even heard of it. I was using AskJeeves and AltaVista.  Also, college was the first place I experienced an internet connection faster than 56k.  

About halfway through the first semester, I finally figured out how to install Java, set the environment variables, and write my first Hello World app usng notepad.  I felt so far behind everyone else.  Most of my peers had been writing code since they were 12 or so; and there I was, 18 and writing my first Java program.  As time progressed, I struggled with money, trying to take as few loans as I could, working as many hours as I could, and failing at college.  To shorten this long story a little, we can skip all of the 5 years that I failed miserably at college.  

My 6th year of college is when something just snapped.  By this time, I had gotten a job with the federal government, working in a civilian human resources office.  My position title was Office Automation Assistant.  I was able to work on a computer just about all day (when I wasn't shredding piles of documents with PII, or distributing supplies from the warehouse.)  Things were finally clicking in respsct to writing code, and I was allowed to work on school work while I was at my job, too.  Schoolwork spilled over into my job as well.  During the summers, I used the tools I had available at work to continue practicing.  This, of course, was Microsoft Office with Visual Basic for Microsoft Applications (VBA).

I began automating the majority of my work, followed by helping others with their repetitive tasks.  At uni, I was learning C/C++, Java, operating systems, OCAML, logic (Boole and Fitch)...and I was actually learning it.  When I started narrowing my focus, I had hoped that graphics design (namely, 3d modeling) would be my calling, but I found that I had a strong "affinity" to databases.  Almost like it was my element. I made that my focus and pressed forward.  I enjoyed all of it...except maybe relational algebra. or was it tuple calculus.  I remember I understood one of them and not the other.

In any case, my passion now had a focus, and by the time I graduated, it was labeled as "Automation Solutions for Enterprise Systems".  I graduated university after 9 years of mostly part-time semesters and full-time work.  My senior project was a system that automated a lot of the tasks involved in creating a job descriptions for the agency I worked for, a process that could benefit from a little automation. After I graduated, I was moved into a Human Resources Information Systems Specialist position with the federal government where I continued finding automation solutions for the office I worked for.  For a long time, this meant writing lots of macros in VBA using Microsoft Access as the database backend, as well as the forms for the front end. I was not allowed to do any kind of web development.  To be honest, I did not really know how, either.

I eventually was allowed to work on one of our major automation systems at headquarters.  This involved staying in Virginia for 3 months and working with the established team of developers.  These were more new experiences for me.  I had no awareness of version/source control software.  On top of this, the system was an ASP (classic) frontend (written in VB) with Oracle backend.  Up until that point, I had only worked with JavaServer Pages with a MySQL backend.  I figured it couldn't be that different.  

When I arrived and got setup at a dev workstation, I found out how wrong I was.  Remember the senior project I previously mentioned?  I though I would be able to at least take the HTML parts of it and convert them to whatever they used.  I also semi-reverse engineered the database backed using the information I could glean from the reporting tools we had available in our organization.  The first three weeks of my time there were spent learning ASP.  Naively, I thought that by learning ASP.NET, I would be learning the ASP they were using.  When I finally dove into their code, I ran into a wall.  Thankfully, I found out from their sys admins that their web server was setup to be able to serve ASP.NET pages.  

Next, I mapped out the database tables.  Actually, before that, I had to learn to use Toad, and what synonyms were.  By the time I was at a point to be able to write the app, I only had about half of the time left.  In that remaining month and a half, I setup a .NET project that mimiced the look and feel of the existing web app (and provided a stage for future enhancements to be written in .NET), as well as implementing a crude version of the automated process for creating job descriptions.

After the developmental assignment ended, I returned to my permanent position, but was allowed to have Visual Studio installed on my workstation so that I could continue working on the project. This was met with some opposition when my supervisor eventually retired and we got a new one.  Working in an HR office and wanting to do software development ended up being quite detremental.  I was constantly pushed into situations that required me to do more HR related functions, or even "additional duties" that no one else really wanted to do.  

It was at this point, after 10 years of working in the HR office that I decided I needed a change.  I knew I wanted to work in the software development industry, but was afraid to leave federal service.  I applied for as many IT specilist, Computer Science, and other Software Engineering-related positions that I believed I was qualified for, but since my resume was full of HR work, I never qualified for them.  I eventually applied for another HR Information Systems position with another federal agency since the position seemed to be more focused on building and improving their information systems, as opposed to performing HR functions (like Recruiting, Position Management, Performance Management, etc).  

During my interview for the position, I asked pointed questions about the type of work that I would be expected to perform, as well as what the work environment would be like.  The office I worked in at the time was noisy and I was in a room with about 20 other staff members who performed recruitment type of work.  My preferred work environment (a quieter/darker environment with not as much non-work related encounters) was taken away when my previous supervisor had retired.  I was assured that my work environment would be more professional and that the type of work was very technical.  So, I accepted the position and moved from Missouri to Washington state.

When I arrived here, I quickly found out that "professional work environment" meant "family-style work environment".  I also learned that I would be allowed to work on improving systems and coming up with new automation solutions but only spend about 10% of my time doing that.  The rest of the time would be spent performing duties as the coordinator for a few programs managed by the HR Office.  The office was a Colonel's lodging that had been repurposed.  There is constant traffic and noise.  It was not the environment I was expecting, nor type of work, but I performed (and continue to perform) the duties I am assigned to a high calibur of quality.  However, I know that I will not be able to pursue my passion while I am here.

That brings us up to date with my history.  I have been spending any free time I have over the last year learning more about software development and practicing as much as I can.  I'm currently extremely comfortable with .NET (both VB and C#.NET, Framework and Core).  I have not had a need to learn how to use Git, but have gained a little famliarity with it. I hope to change that starting now.  I am also learning a few JavaScript frameworks as part of increasing my knowledge about Web Development.  I've also had the opprotunity to continue practicing database design and maintenance.  Currently, I am most strong using Miscrosoft SQL.  

This is probably more information about me than I have ever let anyone know, but in efforts to become more acquainted with the software development industry, I'm putting myself out there.  

# Closing
Feel free to drop any comments or questions in.  I am now on twitter @berukuri_help
